Add: 'Manage the lifecycle for integrations data' (#2344)
elastic/docs-content: manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/manage-lifecycle-integrations-data.md

---

> navigation_title: Manage the lifecycle for integrations data

Author: ```suggestion
navigation_title: Manage the lifecycle policy for integrations data
```

applies_to:
  stack: ga
products:
  - id: elasticsearch
---

> # Manage the lifecycle for integrations data [ilm-manage-data-from-integrations]

Reviewer: I was thinking about the title and how to make it a bit more specific (without mentioning ILM). Very tricky one. Maybe something like **Managing lifecycle policies for your integrations data** or **Managing lifecycle settings for your integrations data**? (But the settings are defined in a policy so it's kind of the same thing, isn' it?)

If I was to provide even more detail, I'd probably go with
**Managing the lifecycle of data streams generated by integrations**, but that might be a bit long for the nav title, but specific enough for the topic title.

Not sure if any of these suggestions make sense or reflect the content well, but that's what it seems like to me (who doesn't know enough about it).

An Elastic integration is a pre-packaged collection of assets that provides an effective, simplified way to monitor a product, system, or service, with minimal required setup. Most integrations rely on {{agent}} as an ingest mechanism, and the policies used to govern installed integrations are managed in {{fleet}}.

> You can find installation and configuration details for all integrations in the [Elastic integrations](https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations) reference documentation. To learn about managing your installed integrations, refer to [Manage Elastic Agent integrations](/reference/fleet/manage-integrations.md) in the {{fleet}} and {{agent}} documentation.

Reviewer: This is more of a philosophical question for my own education.
 
For the `Elastic integrations` link you refer to it as the `<title of page> reference documentation`.

For the `Manage Elastic Agent integrations` link, you refer to it as `<title of page> in the <product name> documentation`, even though it also lives in the same overall **Reference** category. 

How should we refer to these doc resources in a more consistent way? I suspect that in the first example you were trying to emphasise that you're linking to a reference type of doc. But I wonder, do our users know the distinction between what we refer to as _narrative content_ and _referential content_?

Personally, I don't think we should be making this distinction, (ultimately users want to know how do something, and don't care what the tech writers call it), but we should be educating users that there is a **Reference** section within the docs navigation, in the same way that **Get started**, **Manage data**, **Deploy and manage** are also sections of the docs navigation.

Personally, I'd say something  like:
```suggestion
You can find installation and configuration details for all integrations in the [Elastic integrations](https://docs.elastic.co/en/integrations) chapter of the **Reference** section. To learn about managing your installed integrations, refer to [Manage Elastic Agent integrations](/reference/fleet/manage-integrations.md) in the {{fleet}} and {{agent}} chapter of the **Reference** section.
```
I don't know if this is right, I'm not even sure if it's correct to call these groupings `chapters` or what the correct terminology is, but I think we need some consistency in linking to other parts of the docs, for the users benefit, but also our own.

Apologies for the long rant, but does any of this make sense? 😅

Author: Yup! That makes perfect sense. I've added in your suggestion. And you're right: I was distinguishing the integrations "reference" docs from their narrative cousins (which now are also in the reference docs), but indeed the distinction isn't relevant to what folks are trying to do.

1. Open the **Assets** tab and expand the **Index templates** list.

   In the list, the name of each [index template](/manage-data/data-store/templates.md) matches an associated data stream. For example, the `metrics-system.cpu` template matches the `metrics-system.cpu-default` data stream that is set up when the System integration is installed.

    ![Integration assets](/manage-data/images/ilm-integration-assets.png "")
::::

::::{dropdown} Find the data streams managed in {{fleet}}
To find all of the data streams that are managed in {{fleet}}:

1. In {{kib}} go to **Management > {{fleet}}** and select the **Data streams** tab.

1. Use the search field and dropdown menus to filter the list. You can filter by the data stream type, dataset, namespace, or by the integration that the data stream belongs to.

    ![Integration assets](/manage-data/images/ilm-fleet-data-streams.png "")
::::

For any data stream that you're interested in, you can [view its current lifecycle status](/manage-data/lifecycle/index-lifecycle-management/policy-view-status.md), including details about its associated ILM policy. 

> Then, when you've identified one or more data streams for which you'd like to customize how the data is managed over time, refer to our tutorials:

Reviewer: My intention was to suggest a simplification, but it may have made the structure more complicated :bowtie:  -- in which case feel free to ignore it.

```suggestion
After you've identified one or more data streams you want to customize, refer to these tutorials to adjust any of lifecycle settings that influence how your data is managed over time:
```
